# 💬 9. General Discussion

- What assumptions are made in genome-scale modelling approach?
  * What is mathematical optimization and how is it applied in FBA?
    - What are the variables? What is the S matrix?
    - What are the constraints?
    - What is the objective function?
- What input data is required?
  * What are the pros and cons of using reference, MAGs, and SAGs for metabolic model reconstruction?
- What type of data can be integrated, how, and what for? 
  * E.g. transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, etc.
- How would you test the model predictions experimentally?
- Can the model predict unexpected interactions?
- Do you think this approach could be used in your project?
- How can metaGEM be useful for large scale analysis of metagenomes?

## 🏁 Exercise 0: The data

 - Do you expect certain microbial communities to be cooperative or competitve? Why?
 - Rank the communities in the table above from most cooperative to most competitve and justify your answer.

## 🪚 Exercise 1: CarveMe model reconstruction

 - How does CarveMe generate metabolic models? 
 - How does ORF-annotation of genome DNA influence model reconstruction?
 - What are the pros and cons of relying on the BiGG database for model reconstruction?
 - How does the choice of gap-filling media affect model reconstruction?
 - Why are there specialized model templates?

## 🧮 Exercise 2: CarveMe model visualization

 - Approximately how many genes do you expect to find in a typical prokaryotic genome? What percentage do you expect to be metabolism encoding?
 - Are the number of metabolites, reactions, and genes in your community's models comparable to other metabolic reconstructions?
 - Is there variation in the metabolism of conspecific models reconstructed from different metagenomes?

## 🕸️ Exercise 3: SMETANA detailed algorithm

 - How does the SMETANA detailed algorithm work at a high level?
 - What are the underlying assumptions?
 - What does each metric measure and how is it calculated?
    * SCS
    * MUS
    * MPS
    * SMETANA
 - What does a SMETANA score of 0 mean? What does a SMETANA score of 1 mean?
 - Why do we run multiple simulations and take averages of SMETANA scores? Why is it important to use the `--zeros` flag in this case?
 - How does choice of simulation media affect the SMETANA detailed algorithm output?
 - What does the `--molweight` flag do? How can it be useful?

## 📈 Exercise 4: SMETANA detailed visualization

-   Do the predictions make sense from a biological perspective?
-   Look at the receiver species on your community’s alluvial diagram, are they known to be auxotrophic for the metabolites we predicted them to uptake?
-   Look at the donor species on your community’s alluvial diagram, are they known to be prototrophic for the metabolites we predicted them to donate?
-   Is there supporting literature for the predicted interactions in your community?
-   Can this approach be used for hypothesis generation in microbial ecology?

## 🌐 Exercise 5: SMETANA global algorithm

 - How does the SMETANA global algorithm work?
 - What are the underlying assumptions?
 - What does each metric measure and how is it calculated?
   * MIP
   * MRO
 - Does choice of media affect global score calculation?

## ⚖️ Exercise 6: SMETANA global visualization

 - How did your predicted competitiveness/cooperativeness rankings compare with the results from the plot above? Are you surprised by the results?
 - Why is there variation within communities, given that simulations were carried out using the same models?
 - Why might the simulations generated by some of our communities fall outside of the original publication's cooperation-coompetition plot (community size N=5)?

## 🎰 Exercise 7: CarveMe ensemble models (optional)

 - Why can there be differences between models generated from the same genome file?
 - How does the ensemble carving process work?
 - How can ensembles be useful for understanding network uncertainty?

## ❓ Exercise 8: CarveMe network uncertainity (optional)

 - Compare your community's plot with the one [generated for CarveMe paper](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cdanielmachado/carveme_paper/master/results/other/ensemble_distances.png), is there more or less uncertainity?
 - What does it mean if the average/median jaccard distance between models is 1 for a given ensemble?
 - What does it mean if the average/median jaccard distance between models is 0 for a given ensemble?
